Speaker 1  0:00  
I'm pulling up some notes I had kind of where we're at is we were working on our really finalizing our loan process, the way loans are going to move at Quest rock, and we've put it all together. And where I'm at is, you know, Ray and I are done talking, and I'm in here about to implement it into the system. And how I do things is really going to depend on what you think. So I was going to roll through the process, the steps, things like that. We make some notes here and see where, you know, we can, we can link certain things to the dashboard and kind of tie this process together, because there's only two goals that we have, is having an amazing borrower experience and loan officer experience. Those are our customers. And since we're operations, you know, people and operators here, we we just have to make that experience so smooth. And so I was going to go through, I'm pulling up a PowerPoint presentation real quick on our process. It's not completely the PowerPoint is not completely perfect, but it has the process down. And then I can show you some of The physical steps here. Sure, man.

Unknown Speaker  1:37  
All right, I'm it. So let me get this going too.

Speaker 1  1:48  
So our process really starts where, you know, it's a it's an it's an engine, it's a structured system for precision, speed, confidence from the minute we talked to the borrower on the first call to closing a loan. And every phase has a distinct purpose. And understanding the roles ensures every loan moves. Everyone knows what's going on with the loan. Where their loans at, what to do next, what to say next, how to do it and and that creates momentum, because nothing stalls loans more in the old mortgage company model, you walk into a shop, you get hired. You know they they put you on the phone. Start calling. If you've never been in the business before, you have no idea what to do, and usually it's, it's either sales or ops. If it's in sales, they put you on the phone, to telemarket, to call, to cut your teeth, to figure out how to you know if you even have Rhino skin to make it through it. So loan officers are sealed in phone calls. They're calling outbound dials on lists of leads, or even leads that come into the system or fill out forms and different levels to them. They have these phone calls, and when they get off the phone call, what we're going to do is take that transcript of the first phone call, put it through a prompt, which gives them call coaching. I mean, number one, a call summary. Number two, call coaching, and what they did well, what they could do better based on our process and how we do things, and then number three, what to do next, exactly, and how to do it. And our process, we were thinking is, okay, they talk to them, we get the and and then they're getting the application on for the customer, either on that phone call or they're sending the link to the to the point of sale to fill out the information online. But essentially, Once that information is gathered on that call, they're setting an appointment to call the customer back, whether it be to complete the application or to present a loan option. And we want this to happen as quick as possible, within 30 minutes, if we could. But sometimes it doesn't work like that, because in the old model, the loan officers to get the call, they have to go meet with their manager, go talk to them about it, and before even meeting with their manager, they have to put the file together. Maybe have to get some documentation, maybe they have to get the income looked at, maybe they have to get the credit looked at, but then they go to their manager, and this might take freaking three days. So people lose customers, they lose momentum, and everything is slow. There's bottlenecks because of people. So what we want to do is we want to take people completely out of the process. And there's going to be people in it, but the people are in their thoughts, and everyone does what they think is right in their own eyes. Nick thinks, Okay, TJ walks up to him and asks a question. Nick thinks, Okay, here, I'm going to deal with that later. Let me put it on my list. No dude that he needs that answer right then, right now. He shouldn't even have to go to Nick to get that answer. And that does, that's the reality. So, you know, if he had a prop right off that first phone call, here's what you do. Do this, this, this, this, go in the system. Do this. Here's a video. Go here to this person and or go do this in the engine, and then he's moving. And then, you know, that goes along with guidelines and programs and loan structure, and how we're going to do it in our building is we're going to have a person to go to for each thing. I'm going to be the person people are going to go to for loan structure, help, fashion is going to be the person people go to for pipeline help. Hey, what do I do next? How do I move this loan? You know, whatever, and then they're going to go to Ray for pitch help. Now we don't want to be the three bottlenecks in this process forever. Remember, I told you, I'm taking the people out of it, but right now, we're the people that are in it. So I need to build bots and prompts that can be Nick. I need to build bots and prompts that can be bashed. I need to build bots and prompts that can be Ray, and put that throughout the process, so we don't have to be in it. And really it's just putting me and ray through the process. We can do everything and anything, and know how to do it all the best way possible. And if our brains could be in the system, then we can, we can really, we can have something really special here, and that's what we're building so they get off the first phone call, say, for example, a transcripts zapped over and, you know, even builds out the file and lending pad, the customer said that they live at this address, and they have this address and this one. What if the transcript could build the file out for the loan officer so they don't even have to do it? If that can't happen, then I'll put a VA there who reads the transcript and builds the file out for them. I'm trying to make this an engine they want. I want them to feel like, holy cow, I just off the call and this, it's just stuff's happening, just filling out the file. And, you know, I think with the API we have made, we can pull that off. But I'm going real deep and detailed on, on that. That's just the beginning. Like then the manager side. I want those call transcripts with the coaching all that, how to how to coach the loan officer, how to make them better, what they could have improved on, and then what the manager needs to do next, and who the manager needs to go to. And they get a prompt that comes to them, like right after the loan officer's first phone call. So loan officers doing this stuff, managers doing this stuff, everything moving, nothing stalled, will know what to do, just like that throughout the whole process. Is the example. So that's that's what we want to build, and that's going to create the best transparency that and momentum and clarity that anyone's ever seen. And this, this will change the mortgage business, having an engine like that. So, you know, it comes in three stages, verification, validation, closing. Verification is where the loan officer is. If this was a figure eight, like an infinity loop, and it started on the left side, and the loan officer was driving a car, and operations was in the car, in the passenger seat, the loan officer would be driving that loan, trying to talk to the customer, present the loan. He signed the loan. And, you know, structure, the loan, strategy, all that. And once that's once that's done, then they're going to get the customer to pay for an appraisal. An appraisal is like our business. If you walk into a store and you go to go buy a bicycle, you can buy a bicycle. Our store, you walk in, you can't necessarily buy the bicycle. We're like, okay, hey, yeah, we'll sell you the bicycle, but it's going to take 30 days. So the only real money exchange until the closing is the appraisal payment, and that's called skin in the game. We get skin in the game. We know they're with us, and a loan is not really live or even real until that appraisal order is paid for, or the loans considered high. So that's, that's when we say, Okay, this is real. We're going to start spending money. We'll have our people and our resources start working on this loan. And we call that validation validation launch. So as you see here, verification, getting information, identifying the programming, presenting the deal, getting it reviewed by the deal desk or managers. I told you the deal desk people as three. Then the goal is to just get that appraisal pain for and then, once signed package, receive appraisal payments collected, we validation launch is triggered, and boom, the files piped that moment everybody celebrates. We piped alone. Good job.

Speaker 1  9:35  
TJ, then once it's live, that means that quest rock is live. We're behind that bar, we're we're grabbing that loan, and we're going to pull that thing to the finish line so fast. So a couple things happen. There's going to be three types of people involved, a level one processor, who does basic tasks such as ordering, ordering title, getting the appraisal, payment like information in the system and ordered, requesting, seeing what documents are missing, requesting those documents if the loan officer wants them to request those documents, and at points like that, where operations and sales meet where, hey, we need these documents to keep proceeding. The loan officer is going to have an option to choose, hey, you get or I get and, or hybrid like, hey, let's, I'm going to go get a couple things. You go get a couple things, and they're going to be able to schedule meetings with operations to say to just quick little five minute, 10 minute meetings through, through our acuity calendar to to say, hey, I'll go get this. You will get this. They can do it in email. They can do it in teams, whatever. But our system, our engine, is going to drive it through our internal notifications, through status changes and things like that. We'll do that so immediately it's piped. If it's you get, I get, say, for example, loan officers. You get, which is quest rot. You go get it. Then that level one processor is going to go check the initial submission list and with the lender that we're going with, and say, for example, Hey, if we're at the loan store, then they'll come into forms, or we'll have this hosted in our dashboard for processing and Okay, initial submission checklist. It's conventional loan. Then they can open it up, and then, all right, I need these documents to submit it. They check and see if they have it, and if they do, then great, they can get the loan moving. But if they don't, then, since the loan owner said, Hey, you get then we'll go ahead, we'll go ahead and email and call and request those, those documents from the customer, customer for them, and go into the file and actually load all the documents up and and just move it so the law officers back to working with the customer and getting their information. And we're taking this loan to the finish line, so the file is piped then a level two processor at the same time is going to do some higher level tasks, which I'm actually working on, defining what those tasks may be right now. And here's an example.

Speaker 1  12:36  
Here, there we go, level one, level two, level three, tasks. So I haven't even looked at this yet, but you'll see here who's executing what, who's executing it, who's controlling it, who's making decisions. So basically, level one, level two, level three. Level one task is something you know, very basic, just double checking data, making making, you know, little, little, little, just not really making any decisions. They're checking checklists and validating data and things like that. Level two, who'd be like a junior processor? They might do some additional tasks that involve like pricing and loan estimates, making sure that the documents that you know really affect our bottom line, if the loan was sold or something like that. And, you know, could, could, you know, really bite us, or reviewing title, or reviewing an appraisal that comes in, or reviewing automated underwriting systems, then the level three to person, which is, would be like the head processor say, That's Carrie, you know, then she's just validating that that person did it right, it looks right. And then, if it's, you know, there's an issue, everyone, anyone in that level one or level two can go get the level three person for help, because the level three person knows everything a level one and two does, and level two knows everything a level one does. And basically, our processing pods, that's how people get promoted. They start level one, they can get promoted to level two, and they take on additional responsibilities, or honestly, sometimes the work gets reduced. They're doing less work and they're just checking more things to make sure that stuff is right. So a level three processor might just be checking information. They could check 100 loans in a day, because that's all they're doing, is checking it. They're not doing the tasks and front work, you know, things like that. So I got this my screen. But then next step is, once you know all that stuff's done in the first stage, there's things that happen. You know, the borrowers communicated with the loan officers, communicated with notifications go out, maybe, maybe even when the conditions are forecasted, that might be a level three processor, so someone, a processor, might come in here and look and say, okay, based, you know, okay, you said the client is divorced, and there's no divorce decree or child support, and they might say, Okay, well, we need, since you said they're divorced, we need a divorce decree or, or, you know, hey, do they pay child support? And, you know, gather some of those things. So that might be a Level, Level Three catch, where they forecast conditions, success, risk, forecast conditions. They're just trying to basically guess anything the underwriter is going to say that's needed. And as the loans moving through the process, they're just being notified, hey, they're notified when the appraisal is back. Did the appraisal come back? You know, at the right value, things like that. And it's moving through these stages. The next stage is approval, where we actually get the approval back from underwriting, and they let us know, hey, here you worked on one of those documents where it was zapping back and forth, and then, you know, we pause that. But here's what's needed to actually close the loan. They give us a blueprint. So when approval happens, we need to be running to get that approval on all those documents in 30 minutes. I mean, basically they said, Hey, okay, here's your certificate. You can buy the bike. You're approved to buy the bike, all you have to do is get me this. And why would we wait for why would we wait to get the items back that the underwriting needs to close the loan? So, same thing. Level 123, certain people do certain things and then submit the loan back for closing. Then, then

Speaker 2  16:49  
what does, what does our it mean over here?

Speaker 1  16:53  
So, so crit is the way we basically identified who's going to do what? As a level one, level two or level three, complexity, risk, impact, time sensitivity, so you know, and who does it, who should touch it? Priority tracking, urgency, and then the points kind of add up to determine

Speaker 2  17:17  
this Jed, this possible?

Unknown Speaker  17:20  
Oh, yeah, for sure, for sure.

Speaker 1  17:24  
And I'm still, like, working on it, but I can still share it with you, because it's, it's pretty great, yeah. And this kind of Yeah, and this, this is like, you know, if we ever go to sell the company, someone's going to come and be like, well, how are you determining who's doing what? Level one, level two, level three? Why is someone level one or two or three and say, well, we use the crit model. And then explain this. And they're like, Okay. And then, you know, think you can ask this thing, like, Hey, give me the blueprint for my developer to, you know, build this to a dashboard. It keeps suggesting, hey, bridge your dashboard. And, you know, with with these type of tasks, and I got one of these processing checklists. It's not in it's not in any correct order, but it's like, Hey, here's all the things that happen in a loan. And then, you know, of course, I got these initial submission checklists for the different lenders, and I want to talk about that too in a sec. But yeah, then it goes to closing. Stuff happens. There's a closer that schedules with the title company, what time, what day? Sometimes the borrower talks, you know, it's one of those like, hey, loan officer schedule or quest rock schedule, and we'll handle it. And then they make the selection again. But that's the process in a nutshell. And then a couple other notes I had was, you know, we were going to make, put those doc checklists for each investor, kind of, in the processing portion. And we thought about, you know, there's different loan types, conventional, VA, FHA, USDA, bank statement, 1099, profit and loss, et cetera, et cetera. We thought about making a GPT bot for each program type. And we have several investors that we work with, probably, you know, 1015, or less, and we were going to parse the guidelines, their guidelines, and put them into gpts to kind of help. I've already started with some stuff, some bots here, and they're not perfect yet. But like, help me pitch this guy. You're really supposed to go in here and take snips of like, the file numbers.

Speaker 3  19:42  
You and

Speaker 1  19:47  
this has, like, raised training. It's just not as it's just not as human. He's like, Man, this one's so technical. It's, like, the stuff we do, but it's not human like me. I'm like, I know it's technical like me. So just needs, but you kind of put some stuff in here, and let's see if it does anything. It doesn't have all the input needed.

Unknown Speaker  20:20  
Okay, no, that's actually most people

Unknown Speaker  20:24  
what really matters, but payment actually costs you over time,

Speaker 1  20:28  
exactly rate doesn't matter. That's that is actually so wrong, but it's not the right math. So I'm working on the bot. I just started it yesterday. But that's like, what we do. And we do, like, a lot of those benefits. Something happened, but, and then, you know, so all those bots and kind of plug in these bots throughout so the loan officer can talk to them, and, you know, getting that all right. And then last piece is this, all these, all these notifications. So I've been building notifications for learning pad like, for example, when the package gets signed, this comes to the operations team, package, back, order, appraisal. Now I use some code through chatgpt,

Unknown Speaker  21:17  
yeah, so

Speaker 1  21:22  
that's what we're trying to implement. Now we're trying to get this process actually in there. So, you know, I'm in here. Have I shown you the lending pad business rules and all that? So basically, you create notifications in the notification section, section, you can write the code and then the business rules. Is the kind of stuff, and I got to get all organized and get all this in here. But you know, hey, it whatever status trigger. This one says, hey, when the loan status hits approved, then send this notification. You it's kind

Speaker 1  22:07  
of a pain because they put it in two different sections, your loans approved, conditions and then tokens, etc. These. These aren't all perfect. I gotta, I gotta go and tweak these and match these to the process, but I kind of already started

Unknown Speaker  22:22  
a little bit

Speaker 1  22:26  
that's, that's, that's what needs to happen bad and a lot of hard coding rules and in the system, and, you know, getting these notifications and figuring out what to do, where and where to link, What

Speaker 2  22:41  
do something. Because I was just looking at the landing pad API documents that you send me yesterday. Yeah, it's pretty detailed. So I was just protesting all of that and thinking about the things that we can do. And it's amazing. This document is amazing.

Speaker 1  22:56  
I haven't even looked at it yet. I just sent it right to you. I was like, it's amazing, right? So,

Speaker 2  23:06  
do something. Can you? Can you show me the gamma presentation and then the GPT chat? Yeah, taking a moment to digest all of this and then see what we can do with the dashboard. Building off of this,

Unknown Speaker  23:25  
okay, I like it. Yeah. I.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
